1. What would be the process of creating web page from designer mockups?

It depends what do you mean by that question. (It's probably a sign of
my poor English, that I don't understand it clearly.)

If the question is:
What does the term 'creating web page from designer mockups' mean?

Then it's fairly simple - it's exactly what I just did, when you gave
me the designer mockup (an image file) and I transformed it into
HTML and CSS.

But if instead you meant:
Which process should be used when creating web page from designer mockups?

Well, I haven't heard of any formal process for that job. The steps
I usually take, to make it happen, are the following:

 a) Write the (example) content of the page into text file.

 b) Mark up the text semantically with HTML.

 c) Start writing the stylesheet, introducing additional markup where
    needed, and cut out pieces of mockup into separate images, when
    a need for a background or other kind of image resource raises.

 d) Make the design work in your primary browser.

 e) Adjust it a little to work in some other browsers.

 f) Reboot, start up Windows, load the page in IE to see, how it all fails.

 g) Make the page edible to IE.


2. Do you use "what you see is what you get tools" for coding?

I haven't found a WYSIWYG tool, that could satisfy my needs. Even if I
happen to use one, I switch to source-code mode. I'm not agains of WYSIWYG
tools being used as code generators, but in my opinion, you can't really
use them for coding the whole web page.


3. Do you use <strong> or <b>, and why?

A correct answer would be "yes". I use <strong>, when I want to emphasize
something. But if I'm not emphasizing, then I have to pick something else.
If it must be bold, because it's some term I'm defining, then I could use
<dfn> along with a style-sheet to render it in boldface.

I don't see much use for the <b> element, but I would use it, if the text
in bold face should also distinguished from surrounding content when
stylesheets are off and the use of any other element wouldn't be appropriate.

There aren't many good examples of using <b> over <strong>, but the similar
case of <i> v/s <em> has lots. e.g. taxonomical names like Coccinella
septem-punctata (seven-spot ladybird) are usually presented in italics, but
you don't want to use <em> for marking up these, because you don't want to
emphasize the term. Using only stylesheets is also not a good option,
because you want to distinguish these terms from the normal text even when
stylesheets are off, so <i> it is.

Anyway... I've seen religious debates over this issue, so I don't really
want go too deep with it.


4. Do you use validator before publishing a web page? Why is it important?

After writing a program to measure how big percentage of the pages in the
web use valid HTML, it would be a bit weird if I wouldn't care about
validating my own pages.

I think validating your pages is exactly the same as turning on compiler
warnings when programming, or running spell-checker when writing an article.
It looks even more important when dealing with web pages, because browsers
wont report syntax errors.

If the machine can check for some errors instead of you, then there's no
reason not to take advantage of it. It wont ensure, that your page will work
fine in all the browsers, but at least when it fails, you can be sure, it
wasn't because of missing close tag.


5. Samples of previous work.

There isn't much to show.

* My previous year was spent on learning environment VIKO, the front page
  of one running instance can be seen at http://viko.opetaja.ee

* I did three projects at NEWI. One of them probably still runs in intranet,
  the website for radio was finished about the same time the radio went down,
  and the website for Student Union was a total failure of communication.

* The website for Teacher Education Center was another failure - no-one
  could clearly imagine how the page should work (but everybody did try to
  imagine, how it should look), and at the end it clearly didn't, as almost
  no-one visited it.

* Then there is http://www.quicksummer.com/, which I did on my first year
  in university.

I have helped out several people on converting their sites to valid HTML+CSS.
But they all have moved on since then, and there's little left of my code
on their pages.



